# CAPTURING-OF-LICENSE-PLATE-OF-VEHICLES-IN-SINGLE-PLANE-TRAFFIC-
Project aims to provide a solution to this by capture the license plate of vehicles in the single lane traffic without the use of highly expensive motion sensing cameras. 
The code consists of four files which help us in recognizing the license plate of the vehicle in one way lane traffic. 
The algorithm we have followed here is, the final.m will process the video information of the given license plate as a source and generate frames accordingly. 
The basic understanding behind the code functionality of the lic.m file is that it generates the final image to be analysed. It first converts the image to grayscale and does horizontal histogram edge processing then proceeds to process the edges of the image vertically by passing the vertical edge histogram through a low pass filter, finally get the filtered histogram and use it to generate the final image to be analyzed which is new.jpg. This new image will then be placed in the folder file of the optical recognition code- ocr.m which will use this new.jpg to display the input image with noise and then generate a text file identifying the numbers in the given license plate identified by the program with good accuracy. The create_templates.m file aims to create certain templates to the numbers and letters assigned to the image electromagnetic values as analyzed by the program given in the read_letter.m and the lines.m code. These templates facilitate easy assignment and identification in the final ocr.m code.
